start agents.md to guide coding assistants (#6134)
mozilla/fx-private-relay: .agents/agents.frontend.md

# Frontend Development Guide

Frontend guidance for Firefox Private Relay Next.js/React/TypeScript codebase.

See [./agents.md](./agents.md) for project overview and global principles.

## Technology Stack

- **Frontend**: TypeScript, React, Next.js (static export)

> - **Styling**: SCSS with CSS modules, Protocol design system

Reviewer: We don't use anything other than the tokens from Protocol. I've seen agents trying to include Protocol components, which won't work, so probably a good idea to be more specific:

```suggestion
- **Styling**: SCSS with CSS modules, tokens from the Protocol design system
```

npm run dev:mocked  # Dev with MSW mocking
```

## Frontend Patterns

### Static HTML Export (No SSR)

Next.js generates static HTML served by Django/Whitenoise. Build output in `/frontend/out/`. All pages must be statically exportable. No `getServerSideProps`.

### Single Build for All Environments

Frontend built once, deployed to dev/stage/prod. Environment-specific config fetched at runtime from `/api/runtime_data/` via `useRuntimeData` hook. See [agents.md](./agents.md).

### Runtime Config

Use `useRuntimeData` hook to fetch feature flags, environment URLs, and API config. To add config: update `api/views/privaterelay.py` (backend) and `/frontend/src/hooks/api/runtimeData.ts` (frontend types).

### SWR for Data Fetching

Create custom hooks in `/frontend/src/hooks/api/` for each API endpoint.

## Mock Data for Development

Mock data in `frontend/__mocks__/api/mockData.ts`. Available mock users: `empty`, `onboarding`, `some`, `full`.

**Usage:** Append `?mockId=<mockId>` to URL or run `npm run dev:mocked`.

**Updating:** Change type definitions in `/frontend/src/hooks/api/` first, then update mock data. TypeScript guides you to stale mocks.

## CSS/Styling

> Follow [Protocol design system](https://protocol.mozilla.org) and [CSS coding guide](https://protocol.mozilla.org/docs/css-guide.html).

Reviewer: As above, I think this doesn't quite mesh with what we've actually been doing. I also think we're consciously not keeping up with new Protocol versions, so we probably don't want to link to up-to-date documentation. I think much of the coding guide is enforced (or contradicted) by Prettier, so not sure if that's useful to link to. How about:

```suggestion
Use tokens from the Protocol design system (see `node_modules/@mozilla-protocol/core/protocol/css/includes/_lib.scss`).
```

## Translations (i18n)

Translations in git submodule at `privaterelay/locales/`. Use Fluent (@fluent/react) with `<Localized>` component.

**Update translations:** `git submodule update --remote`

> **Add new strings:** Use `frontend/pendingTranslations.ftl` temporarily, then create PR to [fx-private-relay-l10n](https://github.com/mozilla-l10n/fx-private-relay-l10n). Remove temporary strings after merge to avoid test failures.

Author: good point. I update the section to:
```
  ## Translations (i18n)

Translations in fx-private-relay-l10n which is a git submodule at privaterelay/locales/. Use Fluent (@fluent/react) with <Localized> component.

**Update translations:** git submodule update --remote

**Add new strings:** Use `frontend/pendingTranslations.ftl` first. Also make changes in the `privaterelay/locales/` submodule. A PR will need to be opened and merged there. We remove temporary strings after merge to avoid test failures.
```
